Have you ever [snorts] want to build something with AI, but AI never builds you what you want? And part of the reason is because AI doesn't have the full context, the full story of what you want to build. For example, if you were to give everything that you want to build, like typographies, colors, functionalities, everything, embed it to AI's brain, then there's no way that AI's going to build applications with the highest accuracy. But that process of collecting those contexts is really challenging because AI doesn't know what context to collect. And luckily, there's actually a skill for that. It's called the grooming skill, and currently that skill is the second most downloaded out of all time in the skill leaderboard. And essentially, what this skill does is basically interview you relentlessly to collecting those contexts for you, and basically embed it into AI's brain to building applications
with the highest accuracy. And that skill is created by this person called Matt Pocock, who's expert in the web development application space. But most people know Matt Pocock because of the grooming skill. But there's actually tons and tons of skills, like over 51 skills, and also over 13 million downloads out of all the skills that have created. So, that's why in this video, we're going to go over exactly what all those skills are, how we can be able to use those skills here to building applications with the highest accuracy, and also how does it work behind the scene, and how are they different compared to skills that we have already talked about on this channel, like G stack, Sue Powers, GSD. How are his skills different? So, with that being said, let's not waste any time. Let's get straight into the video. All right. So, to get started, first of all, I want to talk about why he actually
built the skills, right? What's the reason behind it? What's the motivation? So, he think that yes, nowadays AI can be able to build things really fast, right? But the accuracy that AI generates is really random. And he think that the AI here is kind of like a black box where you give it a prompt, give it instructions, let's say build me a checkout page, and sometimes it gives you what you want, sometimes it doesn't, and often times here it gives you different styles, different functionalities that you initially imagine, right? And that's why he building skills to controlling that AI randomness that AI generates, right? Things like the gloomy skills, two specs, or two tickets to basically harness agent here for that output randomness. But obviously, he's not the first one who building these skills. We already have skills that we talked about on the channel like G stack, superpowers, or even
things like GSD before. And those spectrum development skills are really popular in the AI space. And of course, if you want to see a full breakdown on how those videos or how those skills difference, you can check out this video right here. How they different, what they are, I'll explain it in that video right here. Okay? So essentially, what Matt Pocock think here is that he doesn't really like those skills. And the reason is because those skills are kind of take over the entire pipeline. And every one of them just wants you to follow the whole process start to finish. So for example, imagine, you know, G stack has a brainstorming session, right? Has the auto plan skill, the office hour skill, and also GSD here has a skill where you can be able to break these back into different phases. And every skills are kind of chained each other. So you have to run one skills after the other, right?
So there's a dependencies of those skills. So let's say if we were to trigger skill number two, and skill number two goes wrong, and we realize that maybe in the skill number six. And then after that, let's say we want to remover, or in this case, maneuver the actual direction of the project's development here, then we have to rerun the entire pipeline again. Like there's no way that I can just trigger step two and just rerun the whole process, right? That whole process here is chained together, and there's no way that you can break it. So that's why Matt Pocock doesn't really like that process. Instead, he think that we should just break that skills into very modular skills that we can actually be able to trigger this in any order we want, right? So rather than just one big framework that if we were to change one thing, it would break the entire process, we can just building smaller skills
that are modular, reusable, that let's say if I were to finish implementation skill, I can still trigger the two specs skill. And after I've done that, I can still trigger the Groomy skill. And the order here that I want to trigger those skills is can be anything, right? So, that's why you can see that the Map Pro Golf skill here is really different compared to a lot of those traditional spectrum development skills that we have. So, now you know exactly how his skill here differs. Let's take a look at the most popular skills that he created called the Groomy skill. And like I said, this is the most second most downloaded skill ever from the skill leaderboard. And to put in perspective, here are the skills itself, right? It's very, very short, only a couple lines, and this is the entire skill. And I have summarized the entire skill into five rules. And essentially what it does here is that
the first rule is called relentlessly, which means that while the AI agent here and yourself didn't reach to a shared understanding, it's going to relentlessly, or in this case continuously, asking more questions until both of you reach to a shared understanding. And then the second rule is the decision tree. So, every time we're asked a question, right? We're going to only tackle one branch at a time. So, one branch from the decision tree. So, let's say it's going to build your application, right? You It's not going to ask you to one question on the checkout page, one question on the about page, or maybe one question on that particular page. It's not going to go all over the place. It's just going to focusing on one branch, one decisions at a time. Checkout page. And then once we cleared out, fully cleared out on the checkout page side, then it's going to move on to another page or another
decisions that we have to make. And the third one here is called one at a time, which means that it's going to wait for your answers before it's going to ask you another question. And then the fourth one here is recommend one. So, never just hand you a blank questions, it's going to give you a recommendations and what are some options that you can choose. And the last one here is do not act. They have to wait for confirmations before it can act it, okay? And that's the five rules that the skill offers. And that whole process here is kind of like a decision machine here. And but the model here just going to supply you with options, and you decide the decisions and stack it on top, right? Every decision that it made is just going to continue to ask you more questions until there's no more questions that are left in the decision tree itself. So, that's pretty much the slash gloomy skill. Now,
before we continue, if you watched this far, you probably want to build something with AI. And just for quick context, my name is Eric, and I used to be a senior software engineer working at companies like Amazon and Microsoft. And on this channel, I'm helping you to master how to build AI agents, automation workflows, and real SaaS product here. So, if you're interested for that, make sure to like this video and consider subscribe for more content like this. And lastly, if you actually want to take your skills up to the next level, I do have a school community here where I hold you accountable. In this school community here, we have tons and tons of school classes that you can actually use to learn from different different topics in AI. And if you have any questions, you can post it in our school community, as well as we have our weekly live calls where I hold you accountable to answer any
questions you have on the AI space. So, if you're interested for that, make sure to check it out in the description below. But with that being said, let's get back to the video. And like I said earlier in this video, gloomy skill is just one of the skills that Matt Pocock created. And there's actually a lot more skills that he created that are also really popular among the gloomy skills that can help us to build the applications with the highest accuracy. So, in that case, let's take a look at this one, which is the two specs skill. Now, essentially, what the two specs skill does is that after you build a consensus between the agents and yourself, but the next thing we're going to do here is that we're actually going to write it down. Because if you don't do that, and if you just close the conversations, everything that you talked to agent here is just going to be gone, right? All the agent
questions, all the grilling session here that you've done previously, everything's gone if you don't write it down. So, that's why the two specs here is going to freeze that, or in this case, convert that into a spec, or in this case, a overall design plan on exactly how we're going to implement this. And the way how this skill here really differs compared to any other two spec skills from other spectrum development frameworks is that he enforced it or in this case Matt enforced this skill here to never put any code block in the empty file itself. Now, there could be really highly technical stuff, but he never wants to put it in any code in the spec because if you put it in the spec, agent is going to follow that code. But what if you actually have agent here to follow this code, but this code here is outdated when you actually start building it. So, you can clearly see that that would make
a huge difference. So, the spec here without the code, that's going to be a lot more cleaner and this will actually enforce the actual AI agent here to look at the code, cross-reference the code to make a better decisions on what's right. So, that's why it doesn't make sense to put in the code in the spec. So, now we know exactly how the groovy skill and two spec works, let's move on to the next skill, which is two tickets. And the two ticket here is exactly like what the name says, is converting what we have in the spec into actual tickets that AI agent here can form. Now, the way how it actually groups those tickets or in this case break those spec into different tickets is also very different compared to any other spectrum development frameworks that we have. So, instead of like just group them by layer, which is what most traditional spectrum development does, for example, UI or API,
for example, I can have a phase or a ticket on the database, another ticket on the API, and another ticket on the UI side. And what happened here is that after one ticket is finished or after one phase is finished, I only have one thing, my database. And let's say if I have API builds or UI builds, I have to wait until all the tickets are complete in order to test the application. But what Matt Pocock proposed here is that instead of just group by layers, we should group by features. So, I can have a ticket one just building out the login page. I can test the entire features end-to-end because default feature here is fully functional. And this will makes it easier to test and really makes the application very modular so that I can be able to change the requirements or doing any things going forward. So, that's the whole point that Matt Pocock proposed here is that slice by feature, not by
layer. So, once we have converting our spec into different tickets, then that's what we can do here is we're going to start to do implementation. And for that, Matt Pocock also created a skill called the slash implements, which can actually help us to writing the code. And if you were to actually look at the implementation skill, you can see that it's also very short. And essentially, what the skill does here is to trigger the slash TDD, which is called the test-driven development here whenever possible. And essentially, what test-driven development does is basically writing tests first before writing code. So, there's actually something that it can actually fail first before it actually runs the implementation. For example, let's say if we have Claude here to building a checkout page. We basically have it to write tests first to define what are the requirements that we're going to set, right?
Initially, it's going to be zero passing because we haven't had any implementation yet. Once we Claude here finish the implementation, then it's going to run the test, make sure that everything's are passing based on the initial requirements that we set in the test. Now, if we were to do the other way around, where we write the test first, where in sorry, the code first. The test is actually based on whatever the code writes. So, let's say if there's a bug in the code that Claude writes, then the test is also going to be satisfied, it's going to say yes, everything succeeded, but there's actually bugs inside of it that we didn't catch, right? But let's say if we were to do the other way around, where we write the test first, the code is actually shaped based on the test that we write. In this way, we can actually be able to prevent the bugs that are being introduced in the code implementation
itself. So, after we have the full test-driven development here fully complete, then the next thing I'm going to do here is we're going to show you the skill called code review to review the work that it has done. Now, unlike any other traditional code review skills that we have seen before, where it's just only checking for bugs in the same sessions that it wrote it, this time is actually going to be very different because we're actually going to start a fresh context window here and following a code review checklist that Matt Pocock has created, walk through the names step-by-step to make sure that the code here is fully checked. And that checklist is only just 12 vocabulary words coming from the book of refactoring by Martin Fowler here. And you can see that Matt here extract 12 keywords from that book and embed it in completely into that skill and using those vocabularies for claw here
to check. Now, just give you an example for the keywords that I have, you can see one of the keyword that I put in the checklist is called a shotgun surgery, which means that let's say if you were to change a color or a requirement or a feature of your applications, for example, like the button color here. Let's say if you were to actually have to change this in multiple places, then that's going to be a problem because if you were to miss one, then that's going to be making that process here to be inconsistent. And essentially what shotgun surgery does is basically try to see if there's anything like this happens in our code base. And then here you can see there's also another example called a feature envy. So, what feature envy does here is that making sure that the logic belongs in the right file. So, if a logic is in the orders.ts, but is actually in the inventory.ts, then that logic
is living the wrong place. So, we want to make sure that logic here is in the right place here. That's what the feature envy checks. Uh the last one here you can see is called a data clumps means that if there's any many data types here that are being referenced by many functions, then maybe we should group those data types into a one same type that's much more easier to reference by many functions here, okay? So, you can see that smaller things like these, that's what they check for in the code review skill. Now, if you're not really technical and you still don't understand what those terms are, that's completely fine. Just know that those terms, those 12 vocabularies are coming from books that follows the best practice on how to write better code. And what that saying here is that simply by referencing those terms from that book is going to basically have claw here to follow a clear instructions
reference from that book on how to clean the code much more better, right? [clears throat] That's essentially what it is. It's just referencing those vocabularies rather than just writing step-by-step instructions on how to clean the code in the skill itself. Now, if you were to actually really carefully looking at the skills that Matt Pocock created, right? For example, this code review skill, you can see that the skill here is really really short. It doesn't really matter what skill you look at, it's always short, concise, and it doesn't really have any useless letters or words inside that skill. Because what he believes is that every extra word that you put in the skill is going to be distractions that cause AI model here to hallucinate. So, that's why he created skill called writing for agents, which is writing documentations for agents whenever you're using this to creating or editing
skills. And the first step that skill help you to do to make it more like a Matt Pocock style is help you to prune that skill, right? Help you to make sure that the skill that you wrote, let's say if this skill here contains 1,000 words, it's going to help you to prune that or compress it down to less words, right? So, that's much more easier for you to actually writing skills that's much more concise, right? So, things like I really uh I would really appreciate it if you would do this. It'll be more like, "Okay, just go direct with what you're trying to do," right? "Interview me relentlessly, blah, blah, blah." Okay? And the second step that he actually also doing that in the skill is basically using phrases, vocabularies that has deeper meanings, right? Things like, for example, shotgun surgeries or data clumps or feature envies, right? We already talked about what those means are, and
essentially we can be reference those words that has deeper meanings that whenever Claude look at it, it knows exactly what it is, right? You don't have to explain exactly, "Do this first, do this second." Looking at those vocabularies, look at those words, they already know what it means, and we just keep it short, we just keep it concise in the prompts that's much more easier for Claude here to follow in the skill itself. So, by using vocabularies, words that have a deeper meanings, and also be able to prune the skill here to be shorter, that's how you can be able to using the writing for agent skill here to actually help you to writing skills that are similar to Matt Pocock style. Now, by this time, if you were to follow the Matt Pocock skills that we have talked about in this video, pretty much you can be able to make your AI here to be a senior software developer, right? Pretty good.
But there's actually one big problem that we haven't talked about, which is AI sometimes writing scattered logic or code. Now, what do I mean about this? Well, let's say if we have a main program here that process payments. And this payment processing program here calls different functions, like calculate discounts or validate cards and such. And let's say we want to have AI here to actually process, or in this case learn about this main function, then what happened here is that it's going to jump to many hoops here, right? It's going to learn to every look at this entire function and see all the functions that this function calling here to learn about this project or in this learn about this program. And by the time when it jumps through many hoops, the context window here are probably already filled up. But don't get me wrong. This approach here has its own benefit because you can actually
go to unit test each and every single module function here by itself, right? That's good. But the problem here is that it's going to waste a lot of token during that process of AI trying to learn about this function, right? Imagine AI wants to learn about how this program works and how to look at every single function here that the program calls, it's going to waste a lot of tokens. So, that's why what he proposing here is that because AI just look at limited amount of stuff, right? All at once. What we can do here is that we can be able to have AI to just look at this one thing, right? And this one function here encapsulate all other programs that we have initially, so that this way we can be able to save more tokens because now AI just look at this one functions rather just look at dozens or many of other functions that this function calls, right? So, essentially we basically encapsulate
it so that we don't have AI here to look somewhere else to waste token here to understand things, right? Maybe it takes like 10,000 tokens here to understand this function, but now we can be able to take just only 1,000 tokens, which is makes it this process here a lot easier for AI here to understand. Now, don't get me wrong. There could be one of the misconception here is that people think that this is actually just putting all those code, all those smaller function here, stuff it into one single file, which cause like 10,000 lines of code inside of one single file. That's not the purpose of that, right? That's not what we're trying to do. What we're trying to do here is that yes, each of those functions here still get its own file, but we're just creating one single door for AI and the program here to access it. Because before, we have so many doors, and AI here have to jump to so many
doors here to understand on exactly how those functions are calling each other, right? This function could call this function, and this function could call him back that function, and that whole process of back and forth here, AI have to waste a lot of time and a lot of token for this. And that's what we're trying to reduce here. And yes, that book called do have a skill for this, which we will going to talk about in the slide. But essentially, that skill also have a functionality here for to do deletion test. Essentially, what it means here is that let's say we have a program called the main program here, and this program here calls this module in question function. But what if this deletion test does is try to see if this function is fragments, right? It's if to see if this function here is really necessary to exist. If this function here has no use, then maybe we should be able to remove
it. And let's say we try to remove it, does all test passing, right? Does all the functionality have it? If the all the functionality doesn't have it, right? In this case, if the test here didn't didn't pass because its function is deleted, then we should keep it because that function is really important. It's a dependency of that main program. But if we were somehow delete this function here, and this whole program here works the same, then there's no point for keeping this function. So, we should delete this function, right? And that's the whole point of having this doing this deletion test on any functions that this main program depends on. Now, let's get to the part of the skill that he introduced, which is called the improved code base architecture. Now, essentially, what this skill does is scans the entire Git log, walking through the hot files, running deletion test, everything that
we just discussed, and pretty much what it does is going to give you a architecture review page that's going to tell you exactly what are things we're going to delete or improve in architecture. Now, I have already run mine and here is my architecture review page that it actually generates. So, for example, for one of the project that I have, here you can see this is the one thing that it recommends. So, for example, the render HTML here is no color. So, there's no function that calls this. And you can see that these are the parent functions, but in this case it's not a parent because they don't really call them, right? So, this stuff here is redundant. So, we should delete both file here because those are still reference. And then we also have things like this. For example, like two shallow module here. So, for example, those two function here are being called by two different functions.
And those two functions are identical, which means that we actually created both of them uh two times. So, if you were to refactor this, we can actually be able to unify this function and this function here into one so that it's much more easier, right? For us to actually be able to refactor this. There's also another example here, for example, one module here owns the posting file format, and you can see that if we were to refactor it, this is what it looks like on the right, okay? So, overall, you can see that this will make the entire coding process, the entire architecture here, a lot more cleaner, and also makes it token efficient. Now, pretty much we have gone over all the most popular skills that Map Po Kak created, like Ruby's, two spec, and so many more in this video so far. But obviously, there's so many other skills that have created that we haven't mentioned in this video. Now,
of course, if you want to go in a further deep dive on all the other skills that I have talked about, as well as some deeper use case on how we can be using those skills in a practical situations, you can also check out our ASS builder in our school community in lesson four here, we actually going to dive in deep onto what those skills are and how we can apply that into building real applications. And what I want to talk about now is basically my opinion on the skill, right? The Ruby skills, all the skills that we went over in this video, what do I think about them? Well, like I said earlier in this video, the reason why Map Po Kak created skills is because all those other frameworks, all of them are trying to enforce you to follow their entire process, start to finish. And there's no way for you to to in the middle of the skill, right? In the middle of the process that skill. So, that's
what he's trying to solve with his own skill. But, I also think that this kind of mindset of reducing that dependency of the skills, right? Making those skill here modular is also the way to go because nowadays models like GPT-5.6 or Fable 5 or Opus 5 here are really, really smart, right? You don't have to make those skill here to be tied together. Now, obviously for weak model like Sonic 5 or models like DeepSeek or models like those that are not frontier, you can probably using Sue power for that because, you know, those models are weak because they don't have those kind of knowledge inside of their knowledge, right? They are lightweight, they don't have this kind of framework in place. So, probably using Sue power is probably ideal. But, for model like frontier model like this, it's ideally to follow skills that are very similar to Matt Pocock's making it modular, mostly rely on AI to
make the best decisions rather than using the skill itself. And the skill here is really just harness, right? Just try to guard the AI here as minimal as possible and try to guide the AI in the right direction and that's all. And that also reminds me of one of the video that I made. And essentially in that video, what I talked about here is that as the model here nowadays are starting to getting smarter and smarter, right? You can see the orange line here is Opus 5 and the blue one here is Opus 4.8. And you can see that as the model here are getting smarter and cheaper, and we can actually see that companies or even Anthropic themself delete over 80% of their system prompt for newer model like Opus 5 because model are getting stronger and they don't really need that much harness because they have those harness or skills embedded into the model by itself. So, if you were to have those old
data skills like Sue powers that really hand-held the model here that doesn't have the model here to think creatively, it's actually going to holding back the results that you get. So, that's why after I study all the skills that Matt Pocock created here, I realized that we shouldn't put too many guards on the skills, right? So many instructions to skill that really holds back the model performance. We should writing skills that's similar to what Matt Pocock created but basically using vocabularies and even architectures on how to creating better skills in this video to prune the skill but doesn't guard AI here to think creatively for any kinds of problems. And that's really what truly what I believe here is going to be the trend going forward, right? Before we have so much instructions embedded in skill but now we don't have too many because now the model here is getting smarter. So, that's
what I think is the trend out there. Now, I'm really curious about what you guys think. Do you think that we should still having more guardrails like what we have seen before like superpowers, G stocks, GSD into skill itself or do you think that we should go the other way around and just having the skill here to be right similar to what Matt Pocock did. So, comment down below and also if you think that there's any better skills that you think that you like on from Matt Pocock's skill repositories, you can also comment down below as well. So, let me know what you think. Comment down below. I'll make sure to read every single comment here and answer all of them. But pretty much that's it for this video. If you do find value in this video, please make sure to like this video. And of course, if you do find value, make sure to subscribe to the channel as well. If you want to see more content like
this. But with that being said, I'll see you in the next video.