You might be paying 20 times more for your Claude code tokens than you need to and not even know it. Understanding how to get the most out of your Claude code tokens is one of the most important skills you can master and it goes well beyond simply putting a line in your Claude.md file saying be brief. Because if you don't understand things like how prompt caching even work, you can be paying way more than you need to. So in this video, I'm going to give you five different ways to better manage your Claude tokens so you can actually get the most out of these top-tier models. Now tip number one is the most important. This will save you more money in usage than every other tip combined by far and that is understanding how prompt caching actually works. Now to understand prompt caching, you need to understand how tokens work at all. So we're going to do a very quick review like 60 seconds so
we're all on the same page. Now tokens are the currency of large language models and for all intents and purposes, this is somewhat simplified, is every word equals one token. So when you, the user, on your first message to Fable say, "How are you doing today?" you have sent five input tokens. Now when Fable responds to you and says, "I'm doing great, thanks." it has given you four output tokens. These are priced differently. In fact, output tokens, by and large, cost five times what an input token costs. Now these five input tokens and these four output tokens now accumulate inside the context window. If tokens are the currency, then the context window is our budget. Opus, Fable, Sonnet, they all have a budget of 1 million tokens. So this point we have used nine over 1 million, not a whole lot. Now what gets interesting is when we send follow-on messages after the first one. So in our second
message, I, the user, say, "Build me an app, no mistakes." Six input tokens, right? I'm just going to send Anthropic and Fable just six input tokens. Well, not quite. What I'm actually going to be sending it is everything. I'm going to be sending Anthropic this entire conversation up until that point. So, I'm not really sending six input tokens. I'm in fact sending 16 input tokens cuz I'm going to send them the five from here and the four from here because it's going to get the entire message so that it can understand the context. And for every single follow-on message, that will be the case. I am always sending the entirety the conversation before that latest message. And you can quickly see how this compounds very, very quickly to where you're talking about 5,000, 10,000, 100,000 input tokens being sent every single message and you are paying for that. Now, if that is the case, then why
don't we just run through all of our usage immediately? Why doesn't everyone pay a billion dollars every time they try to use these AI systems? Because obviously we're sending message after message, so there's a whole lot of like compounded messaging being sent to the servers. Well, the solution here is the cache system. So, yes, when I send message number two over here, I am in fact sending all of this. But, what has been created at this point is the message cache. And for our second message, that message cache are these first two messages. I want you to think of the message cache is simply a document that Claude has in front of it that has your entire conversation up until that point. So, we got you talking to Claude right here. You are now sending message number two, which is build me an app, no mistakes. But, we have the cache system, so this whole section, these first two messages, are
now sitting in this document. So, what Claude and Anthropic is able to do is it is able to read that document, it's able to read the cache, take a look at the entire message history up until that point at a way cheaper rate than if you were just sending it all at once without the cache. And that's how it calculates the cost. And this cost is important because this cash system does not last forever. What you need to understand is that when you and Claude are talking to one another and we have this cash document between us, which has all of our conversation history, which it can read very cheaply, it only holds on to that for 1 hour. So, if you and Claude are having this discussion, you're having a back and forth over and over again, you know, just back back back back and then you walk away for an hour and you have a document that is 500,000 tokens long, a 500,000 token conversation. After
an hour, this disappears. This is gone. And so, when you send message, you know, 500,000 and one, well, guess what? You are now going to be charged for a full rate 500,000 token message, even if all you said was, "Hey, what's up?" Now, understand when I say this cash only lasts for 1 hour, I mean an hour with no activity. So, it's refreshed every single message. So, if it's been 59 minutes since our last message and I hit it again, well, that 1 hour counter resets. Now, why is it so important? Well, it's the cost I talked about in the intro. The difference between a cash read, aka reading this whole history versus reading the 500,000 message without a cash is quite literally a 20x difference. And this is reflected in the pricing documentation. So, remember, output tokens what Claude is giving us, that never changes. For Fable, we're looking at $50 per million tokens and $25 when it comes
to Opus. But, the input tokens is where this whole conversation has been living. So, we always talk about base input tokens of being $10 per million, but that's kind of a misnomer because in reality, we are always doing cash writes. So, a 1 hour cash write, which is what you are doing on a subscription plan, is is fact double the cost. So, when we are writing to that cash for the first time for like that first message, it is $20 per million tokens. You'll notice a 5-minute cash right here, but that is really just for people who are on the API. Now, compare that to the cash hits, aka Anthropic is just reading that document that's in front of it that it's been accumulating every hour and refreshes, it's $1. 20 times cheaper. That's a wild difference, and that's why this whole thing, this particular tip, understanding prompt caching and how the token system works is so important. There is nothing
I'm going to talk about beyond this point that is going to give you any sort of, you know, efficiency gain close to this. Nothing. Now, let's go back to our example of that 500,000 token conversation we are having with Claude Code, and we're about to send a follow-on message. In scenario number one, we're going to imagine we have the cash system. So, this 500k conversation history is cached, and I'm sending that new message. The way the pricing is going to work is it still has to read this whole conversation history, and that is at the $1 per million token rate. So, it's going to cost me 50 cents on that next message for it to read everything, plus the new message. So, imagine that new message was a thousand tokens long, that thousand token follow-on message is not charged at $1 per million, it's charged at $20 per million. So, for a thousand tokens, that's what, like 2 cents or something
that I don't know, my math is probably off. The point being, the history is at a dollar, the new one is at $20 a month because this is cached. Now, the next time we send a message, same scenario except this thousand tokens will now be part of that cached document. Sort of makes sense? Okay, that's scenario one. Scenario two, we have no cash. We waited an hour to send it. Well, instead of this being 50 cents, we instead now are going to get charged at a cash read Sorry, at a cash rate rate, which remember is $20 per million. So, what is this going to cost? Well, now this one message is costing us like 10 bucks. So, we went from 50 cents to $10 just because we waited an hour. That's the like sort of consequences of not understanding this. Now, time isn't the only thing we have to think about when it comes to losing the cash. There are other things that will reset it completely, and this is
straight from the Claude code documentation. If you switch your model, you know, you were on Fable and you switch to Opus and you're 500,000 tokens in, that is gone. Cash is reset. Effort level, going to change it. Fast mode, connecting or disconnecting an MCP server, plugins, denying tools, compacting conversation, or just upgrading Claude code in general. Any of these things will reset the cash, and your next message will be 20 times more expensive than it needs to be. So, with all that being said, what can you actually do with this information? What do you do when you're in a position where you need to step away from a conversation that has a lot of important information in it, but you're going to be gone for more than an hour, or you stepped away for an hour plus, and you're just coming back and realizing, "Oh, shoot. Like, I kind of didn't think about this ahead of time." Well, that's
what we will talk about in tip number two. But first, a quick word from today's sponsor, me. So, this week I am releasing a completely updated version of my Claude code masterclass inside of Chase AI Plus. A ton has changed since I first came out with this. I update it all the time, but fundamentally, we've come a long way since March when I came out with this thing. So, if you're someone who is trying to level up their AI game, someone who definitely doesn't come from a technical background, and you want a roadmap actually know how to use this tool from the ground up, and something that focuses on real use cases, then this is for you. It's inside of Chase AI Plus. There is a link to it in the pinned comment. Now, tip number two is all about your options when we lose the cash. We stepped away for too long. We have some conversation that's 2 3 4 500,000 tokens long and we want to know what
the next step should be instead of paying those outrageous costs. And it kind of just depends on what your scenario is. Now, our first option is sort of the nuclear option and that's just to do forward/clear. Forward/clear is just going to wipe the entire conversation history and this isn't always a bad thing. In fact, if you have some sort of code base that you're working in, some sort of project which with a bunch of files and a bunch of contacts, you probably just want to forward/clear. Whatever you were working on, whatever you were talking about, chances are there is evidence in the project itself as to what has happened. Claude code can just take a look at that and when you start a new conversation from scratch, it can pick up the pieces and get you back to where you were. You don't need to be a slave to the previous conversation. Now, your second option is to use compaction. Now, there
is an auto compact feature inside of Claude code once you hit a certain amount of tokens. I suggest not waiting to get to that point because when we're working in the 6 7 800,000 token range, we're starting to deal with context rot, still a problem with these bigger models, these more powerful models, but we can forward/compact anytime. And what that is going to do for us is it's going to create a summary of what we've talked about and then for all intents and purposes, it's going to do forward/clear, but it's going to start a new conversation with that summary kind of like in the memory. So, if you did have important stuff in that conversation, you don't think whatever's in the code base is going to be enough for it to understand, well, then just do compaction. Forward/compact, it will start a new conversation with that summary and that summary just lives in the message history. Now, your
third option is very similar to compact and that is doing some sort of custom handoff tool. There are a bunch of custom handoff skills out there. I have one myself. You can get that inside of my free community. And the difference between handoff and compaction is where that summary lives. So, if I'm doing handoff, what that's going to do is it's actually just going to put it on my disk. It's going to create an actual markdown file with the summary, with whatever I want in it, and then I can start a new conversation and say, "Hey, Claude, code, take a look at that handoff document on the disk so you can get spun up on what you need to know." Versus compact, it doesn't create any sort of file. It's just a message in the message history in that particular conversation you're having. Subtle difference, but for some people they want some sort of file on the disk, and oftentimes it's a living breathing
document that's constantly being updated. So, these are really your three options. Do you want to just clear everything and start from scratch? Oftentimes this is totally fine. Do you just want to use the Claude native feature and compact it and have the summary injected right in? Or do you want a summary to be an actual document that Claude can look at? In that case, use handoff. Those are your three options, and oftentimes they are better than just sending a new message, because by and large you really shouldn't be operating in 400, 500, 600,000 token ranges anyways. Now, tip number three is all about model routing. How do we choose the right model for the job so we aren't just using Fable for everything? Can we use a smaller, cheaper, less smart model for the simpler tasks? The answer is yes, and we can approach this in a number of different ways. We can use outside models. We could go
to GPT. So, we could go to GPT Luna and Terra, which just got super cheap. We can use local models, or we have options if we want to stay in the Anthropic ecosystem. And the easiest way to do this, I think, is advisor mode. Now, what you see here is from the original advisor blog post that came out several months ago, and so it shows Opus and Sonnet, but the same system remains with models like Fable. And the idea is we have a smart model like Fable or even Opus advising a smaller model like Sonnet when it comes to executing tasks. So, the big model comes up with a plan, the small model executes it, and the small model is able to share its context with the bigger model whenever it runs into issues. And this model has boasted better outcomes at lower costs. And to bring up our previous discussion about prompt caching, both the advisor and the executor have their own prompt cache working at
the same time. Now, your second option is to delegate tasks to models outside of Claude code. An easy one to do is Codex. There is a Codex plugin for Claude code, which makes it very simple to call on Codex from the Claude code interface. So, you can have Fable essentially doing that same sort of advisor mode, but instead of calling on Opus or Sonnet, it calls on the GPT models. There's other repos like this Fable advisor that do exactly that. And ultimately, it's pretty trivial to set up your own skill that does this exactly. And if you're looking for those cheaper models, again, I really suggest looking at the GPT ones, specifically Luna and Terra, because A, their costs got reduced significantly, and B, there really isn't any model in the you know, Anthropic family that does what they do at that price point. You can even take it a step further and bring in some local models if the tasks
make sense for that. And tip number four is all about your Claude hygiene. You might have seen this video recently making the rounds of Boris Cherny, the creator of Claude code, saying, "You need to delete your Claude.md file." Well, do you need to really delete that Claude.md file? Well, not necessarily, but what you do need to do, and this has gotten some recent changes over the last couple weeks, is run the forward \{{}slash} doctor command. And what does this have to do with tokens? Well, first of all, what this command is going to do, amongst other things, but we're kind of keeping this token related, is it's going to take a look at your claw.md and it's going to trim this thing down. The way these models work, especially these five series models, is they do not need as much instruction. If you look at what people were creating for the claw.md's 3 6 9 months ago, they were very prescriptive
and extremely detailed and perhaps at the time an argument could be made that they needed that. That is not the case anymore. And so not only is a bloated claw.md making it slower, it is literally costing you tokens. And doctor is going to take a look at that and get rid of things in your claw.md that just don't need to be there. Secondly, it's going to take a look at things that are harming your context or or bloating your context window because even when you start a new conversation and you run context, there are things filling it up. Now I've recently run doctor, so I've gotten rid of a lot of my bloat, but this is what my context window looks like right at the beginning of a conversation with no messages sent. We've already used 40,000 tokens and what is using up a lot of this? Well, some of it comes from things like skills, like you can see here. Some of it includes stuff like the system
prompt as well as memory files. What doctor is going to do is it's going to take a look at things like your skills, like your MCPs and start trimming the ones that you just haven't been using. Is this a huge token save? No, but it's something it's something on the margins and it's such a simple fix. There's no reason not to do it, especially if you're someone who's been just accumulating 10 million skills over the last 6 months and you haven't actually gone through and started cutting them. Because doing so will also make your skills fire more effectively and there won't be any confusion on Claude's part as to which skill it needs to call. I bet you probably have like 10 skills sitting there that all have to do with front end design and you don't need all those. So this very simple and easy to execute tip when it comes to sort of your Claude hygiene is one you shouldn't pass up. Just run
doctor. And so, that brings us to our final tip, which I think is the least effective out of the bunch these days, but that is sort of the additional skills and scaffolding that you see running around all over the place. The most popular one these days is ponytail. And essentially, it reduces the amount of code Claude writes while maintaining its effectiveness and therefore making it cheaper and faster. Now, I did a video on this comparing these numbers with what actually happens in reality because the GitHub repo only shows Haiku 4.5, which obviously is very outdated. When I ran this using Fable, the numbers did hold up. In fact, the numbers look even better with better models. Now, I used the benchmarks that were provided with this GitHub repo. What works for you in reality may be a little bit different depending on the complexity of your project, but this is something you can tack onto
everything we've talked about up until now if you want to continue to reduce your token usage. Another one you will see a lot is caveman, which these days is claiming it reduces your output tokens by 65%. There's a lot of people out there who also talk about just doing one-liners in a Claude MD, something as simple as just saying be brief, which will also reduce your output tokens. But remember, output tokens are just one piece of the puzzle. And that puzzle, to bring it back to our original discussion, is dominated by prompt caching. So, if you got nothing else from this video, I hope you were able to get that because that is where we're going to be ending it today. So, as always, let me know what you thought. Make sure to check out Chase AI Plus if you want to get your hands on the Claude Code Masterclass. Again, dropping a huge update on that this week. And besides that, I'll see you around.