Understanding the context window is like the most key information you can possibly take on if you're a dev working with AI. And yet, a lot of devs are not really clear on what a context window is. If that is you, you are in the right place. The context window is made up of input and output tokens. The input tokens might include a system prompt here and let's say a user prompt, the message from the user, and then the output tokens is whatever the assistant comes back with. This might involve reasoning tokens as well or just pure output tokens. The context window is not any part of this. It's the whole thing. The input and output tokens make up the context window. Now, as the conversation gets longer, as more and more messages get put into the conversation, the number of tokens used grows. And as you can imagine, this can't go on forever. Every model has a hard-coded limit for the number of
tokens it can see at any one time. And if we imagine a super long conversation here, eventually we will hit a limit. And if you try to query the LLM with this super long conversation and you hit the limit, then you will probably get some kind of error back from the API. You might even hit the limit during the generation of a message. So this message might start outside the context window limit, but as it goes, oh, it carries on carries on until it hits the context window limit. The model itself isn't quite smart enough to work around its own context window limits. And so you will hit issues like this sometimes. But the biggest issue with context windows is that the bigger they get, the more lostinthe-middle issues you get. If we imagine a huge conversation here where these rings are the individual messages, the messages at the start of the history have quite a big impact on the output and
the ones at the end do too, but the stuff in the middle the LLM pays a bit less attention to. This is a well-known phenomenon and it's much more pronounced the larger the context window gets. So when you're assessing a model, you shouldn't just think, "Wow, this context window limit's huge. That's incredible. I can put so much stuff in there." that model will still probably have lost in the middle issues. It may even have trouble retrieving information from its own context window. And so even if that model supports a big context window, you'll definitely still get better results from using fewer tokens in the context. So that's what the context window is and what its limitations are. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next