From now on, auto mode will be the default in CloudCode. But, what is auto mode and why you should even care? But first, we need the right context. In CloudCode, we have six permission modes. Permission mode is a setting in CloudCode that controls how much it asks you before doing anything. Before the recent change, the default was manual approval. The new default is auto mode and it does almost everything. It uses something called AI classifier that we're going to dive into in a second and it aims to block dangerous actions. If you want to switch between permissions while you use CloudCode, you can use the shift tab. You can see that I'm using the manual mode. I can switch to accept edits mode, plan mode, and auto mode. There are two more permissions modes that you are not able to change while CloudCode is running. The first one is don't ask. With this mode, you can execute only pre-approved
actions and everything else is auto denied. So, if you have a strong list of allowed permissions, it can work for you. The second mode is very popular, which is bypass permission. It skips all the checks and allows CloudCode to do everything it wants, fetch the web, edit files, execute bash commands, and so on. Unlike other YouTube channels, I don't recommend to use this option. You need to have control over the agent. But before we continue, I want to talk about the difference between auto mode, accept edits, and bypass permissions. Well, bypass permissions gives the agent everything it wants to execute. every command immediately without asking for our approval. With the accept edits, we give it permission to edit the files in our current folder. You can change your default permission mode by editing your settings in Cloud. You need to have this part in your JSON. But it's not the only way.
You can start your CloudCode with any permission you want with these commands. But how does auto mode work? I took this diagram from the official video. So, let's say I started a new Claude code session and I wrote my first prompt and now Claude code wants to execute its first action. An action can be editing files, fetch websites, or even executing bash commands. If we're in auto mode, the first step is looking in our rules. These rules lives in a setting file that we're going to see in a second. If there's an exact instruction and Claude code knows how to handle this action to deny or approve it, you won't get into the classifier. For example, I can config that Claude code can fetch the web whatever it wants and search any website it needs. But on the other hand, it won't be able to execute any git push command. Anthropic described it perfectly in their video. >> Use the environment field
to describe your infrastructure in plain English, such as your GitHub org, cloud buckets, and internal services. Setting environment for places Claude's built-in entries. So, add a default string to keep them. If you need more fine-grained control, use allow for exceptions, soft deny for actions that should be blocked unless we explicitly ask, and hard deny for actions that should be blocked no matter what you ask. These fields are guidance the classifier factors into each check, not hard rules. For hard limits, add deny rules to block matching tool calls, and ask rules to force a prompt even in auto mode. Allow rules also work, too. >> If you want to see full tutorial on this configuration file, tell me in the comments. But if Claude doesn't know how to handle this action after reading the rules, it will go into the classifier. A classifier is just an AI model. According to these commands,
it is just Sonnet 5. This model lives in a separate context and with every permission request from Claude, it tries to answer two questions. First, does this action can lead to a security issue? And second, does this action is dangerous and irreversible? For example, deleting the files in your folder. If both of the answers are no, it will give permission to Cloud Code to execute this action. If one of them is yes, the request will be denied. So, we understand the classifier is a crucial part in auto mode, but is the classifier's decision logged? Yes and no, and I'll explain. You can track these decisions by using the open telemetry, but in order to do so, you need to have the right background, and it's almost impossible for the regular Cloud Code user. So, practically, you don't have an option to see the previous decisions. Auto mode is great, but if you want to take Cloud to the next level,
you must master Cloud skills. Luckily, here are seven ways to do just that.