Do software fundamentals still matter? Or is the programmer just dead as a profession? Should we just ignore the code and just focused on the outputs of what the AI is producing? Just let it be a black box. Well, I've got an idea for you, which is that the code is the environment the agent operates in and the quality of the environment influences the output of the agent working in that code base. So, if you have a garbage code base, then the agent is going to produce garbage. And the thing about garbage code bases is they sneak up on you. So, there's a concept called software entropy where unless you're very careful about organizing the code base, thinking strategically about what you're doing, having a long-term view of the code base, applying software fundamentals, then the code base slowly gets worse and worse, more disorganized, harder to work in over time. And from what I've seen so
far of AI, humans are a lot better at working in bad code bases than AI is. Humans have memory and so they can remember what works in a code base and what doesn't. This isn't perfect, of course, but it means that they can develop a sense for a bad code base over time and still remain relatively productive in it. Agents have no memory unless you bolt on a kind of crappy memory system onto them, which is a very unsolved problem. They are kind of like the guy from Memento that wakes up in the code base and goes, "Okay, I'm awake. Uh what do I remember? Nothing." And so you have to re-teach them everything about this bad code base as it goes. This means that AI will make the same mistakes again and again in your code base unless you're there thinking strategically, working with guardrails, getting them to where they need to be, preventing their mistakes. This is true of dumb models and it's true
of smart models. The problem is not the ability to reason, it's the fact that these code bases are hard to explore, hard to work in, hard to make changes in, and it's just a tricky environment for the AI to work in. The people who are most valuable right now are the ones who can build great agent experiences in their code base. And that comes from having code that's easy to explore, having tests that test at really good seams, having good module design and interface design. And so, yes, software fundamentals still matter more than ever because good code bases matter more than ever.